---
layout: post
title: Best "Philosophical Quotes"
description: Philosophy - Love of knowledge and wisdom
---

<font size="+3">Political:</font>

"revolution is the fire of our will and a need of our solitary minds; it is an obligation of the libertarian aristocracy. To create new ethical values. To create new aesthetic values. To communalize material wealth. To individualize spiritual wealth. Because we-violent celebralists and passional sentimentalists at the same time-understand and know that revolution is a necessity of the silent sorrow that suffers at the bottom and a need of the free spirits who suffer in the heights."

*by Renzo Novatore*

“We must take from the right nationalism without capitalism and from the left socialism without internationalism.”

*by Gregor Strasser*

<font size="+3">Analytic:</font>

“One must not think slightingly of the paradoxical…for the paradox is the source of the thinker’s passion, and the thinker without a paradox is like a lover without feeling: a paltry mediocrity.”

*Søren Kierkegaard*

"The beginning and the greatest good is prudence. Wherefore prudence is a more precious thing even than philosophy: for from prudence are sprung all the other virtues, and it teaches us that it is not possible to live pleasantly without living prudently and honorably and justly, nor, again, to live a life of prudence, honor, and justice without living pleasantly. For the virtues are by nature bound up with the pleasant life, and the pleasant life is inseparable from them."

*Epicurus, Letter to Menoeceus*

<font size="+3">Stoicism:</font>

"We are disturbed not by what happens to us, but by our thoughts about what happens."

*Epictetus*

Concentrate every minute on doing what is in front of you with precise and genuine seriousness, tenderly, willingly, with justice and on freeing yourself from all other distractions. Yes, you can, If you do everything as if it were the last thing you were doing with your life, And stop being aimless, Stop letting your emotions override what your mind tells you, Stop being hypocritical, Self-centered, Irritable. You see how few things you have to do to live a satisfying and reverent life? If you can manage this, that is all even the gods can ask of you.

*Marcus Aurelius*
